FILENAME:	2514_1083_1214
TOPIC#:		346
DATE:		910409
TRANSCRIBER:	PMC
DIFFICULTY:	5
TOPICALITY:	2
NATURALNESS:	2
ECHO_FROM_B:	2
ECHO_FROM_A:	4
STATIC_ON_A:	2
STATIC_ON_B:	2
BACKGROUND_A:	3
BACKGROUND_B:	5
REMARKS:        Speaker B was very difficult to understand.

============================================================================

A.1:  Okay, Dee, are you familiar with the Latin American policies?

B.2:  Yeah, to a point, it's not my best subject. 

A.3:  Really, yeah it's not mine either, but, uh, I know, I know our policy, like
in Nicaragua, I am familiar with that [throat_clearing] because we have, uh,
some friends that live on the Nicaraguan border and they are missionaries
there and they, they live there and they have to travel by boat forty-five
minutes to get to their car and stuff, and uh, I know that they helped a lot
of those Sandanistas refugees coming across the border and they housed them
and stuff.  They have been down there about three years now, and they wrote
that it's kind of weird [laughter], they have bats in their roof, but the
bats eat the bad spiders so they leave the bats, you know.  So.

B.4:  Yeah.  It's a whole, whole different culture or,

A.5:  Uh-huh. 

B.6:  It, it's weird down there because there's always lizards and things running
around that people live there, they just, they take it for granted and it's
like we go down there on vacation, it's like oh, how can these people live
with these lizards and like bats in their house?

A.7:  Yeah.  I think their policy with them that though, is, uh, I don't know, I
think, I wish we would have just, I'm not that up on the policy of ways.  I
know that's kind of old, but I don't know, I just, I'm glad that the
Sandanistas aren't in power anymore because I think that they were
[throat_clearing] very wicked.  And, uh, probably some of the biggest drug
dealers that the world has probably ever seen, and I feel like most of the
leaders in Latin America are probably, you would be safe to say that they were
just very very, you know, big into drugs.

B.8:  Very very corrupt, like the Panamanians are, were very corrupt.

A.9:  Right.

B.10:  The thing about it though is the Panamanians is, a lot of servicemen down
there.  A lot of, a lot of American servicemen are involved,

A.11:  Uh-huh. 

B.12:  because I guess there was a big, big, uh, scam that, that all these guys
up.  Thousands of servicemen,

A.13:  Uh-huh. 

B.14:  got caught for running a drug ring. 

A.15:  Yeah.  

B.16:  So, it's, it's like everybody is into it, it's just greed. 

A.17:  Yeah. 

B.18:  Human greed.  Interestingly (( )) in Honduras,

A.19:  Uh-huh. 

B.20:  It's very pro-American. 

A.21:  Uh-huh. 

B.22:  And we have I, my girlfriend used to, uh, be in the Navy and she was based,
uh, based in Panama.

A.23:  Uh-huh. 

B.24:  In Honduras, very, uh, uh, pro-American. 

A.25:  Uh-huh. 

B.26:  And there's a lot of men, I don't know how many American, uh, soldiers are
there, but there's a lot. I mean, they, uh, and you can't, the American
government you can't trust them either, because you think, you don't know how
corrupt they are. I mean they keep people in power like the Shah of Iran and,

A.27:  Uh-huh. 

B.28:  things like that, I mean, it's the lesser of two evils, they will probably
say this is the lesser of two evils.

A.29:  Yeah.

B.30:  But I don't know how corrupt the Honduran government is.  But the, 

A.31:  Yeah, they need to have more checks and balances in their government
[throat_clearing] to get rid of the corruption.  But I think first though, I
don't know, they need to, I think they need the repentance on the leadership
of the different nations for all their, uh, you know the atrocities that they
commit and the drug dealings, and in the, just in the drug crimes, because I
feel like a lot of the leadership in those nations are so engrossed in the
drug crimes that until they repent or they are moved from power, that you
know, because there are so many of them that the next one to come up, if you
just knock one off and then have another one, and I know a lot of those
nations, there's, uh, Brazil, I know, is like forty percent evangelical
Christian. Not just go to church but, you know, really on fire for God, and
they are just surpassing America, Latin America by the drugs. You know, it's
just incomprehensible, and, uh, so I just think that, I think that God is going
to honor that and that he is going to put in some good leadership, and I know,
the president of, I believe Costa Rica is a Christian.  And he goes to, no
Guatemala, because he goes to virgo church in Guatemala City. The church is in
real close relationship with him.  And he is a former president of Guatemala.
He's an elder at virgo church and, you know that, that God is doing something
and he is raising up some leaders and the people want him back as president
bad, but they have a rule in Guatemala that he can't have another term and so
the, the people are trying to override that, I mean not just the Christians,
but all the people because they see when a righteous man is in authority, the
people rejoice.

B.32:  Yeah, good. See, that's the thing, that it's going, have to,

A.33:  Yeah. 

B.34:  that's the undoing of everything, and it's the, we have no morals, when
we, talk about the crime and all that in the city, it's just the kids have no
morals.

A.35:  Right.  

B.36:  That's the thing that will eventually, you know, if anyone is going to be
saved.

A.37:  Uh-huh.  

B.38:  It is having a good moral background. And it's funny you mention Costa
Rica, because they are just, they are one of the most successful and peaceful
countries,

A.39:  Uh-huh, yeah. 

B.40:  in Central America.  So, I was reading an article in the, uh, National
Geographic and, I don't know, I don't think they have any more money than any
of the other countries,

A.41:  Uh-huh. 

B.42:  they don't have oil or anything, and they don't have big tourism.  So
maybe it is their faith that enables them to keep the crime out.

A.43:  Uh-huh.  I know that Costa Rica, they don't allow anybody to come that,
uh, to come any, uh, what do you call, what do you call immigrants?  They
don't allow anything like that like I could not go to Costa Rica and live as
an American citizen.  They would not permit me to live there to work.  They
wouldn't.  Their jobs are there for Costa Ricans.  They don't allow people to
move in, like less nations, you know,

B.44:  They don't, they don't probably take a lot of refugees from other countries
either.

A.45:  take the job.  No they don't take any.  I mean I couldn't even go there.
My husband had to receive all this special permission to go, so even with, uh,
you know, in, uh, inner company, you know, transfer, or something, and I have
another friend in, uh, Costa Rica that, she was born there.  She's Costa
Rican. I guess I do know a little bit.  I went to Mexico City one time and
stayed.  I have been there twice and stayed and, that, aw, that was just
really sad.  But, a lot of it though is their debt. I think that we should not
loan them anymore money, that if we still want to give them money, give them
money, quit loaning it to them.  You're not going to get it back.  Don't be
indebted to anybody.  Don't be the loaner or borrower. It's just not good.  We
need to, if we feel like we need to give them money then give it to them, but
quit loaning all the money out.  Which I don't think we are loaning anymore
now, but that's how we got into a problem.  If we got, the, we have, we went
in the hole by us loaning them all of these billions of dollars. That's common
sense, you could just look at it and say they're not going to be able to pay
us back.

B.46:  Yeah also, uh, uh, Mexico, uh, we will loan the money in uh, a lot of the
higher, the higher people,

A.47:  Uh-huh. 

B.48:  were just stealing it and,

A.49:  Right. 

B.50:  building these beautiful homes,

A.51:  Uh-huh.

B.52:  and nice ranches and things.

A.53:  (( )). 

B.54:  So we are, we're suckers.

A.55:  Yeah, we, we are, it's like we are partly responsible for their problems by
loaning them all that money, that was really stupid on our part to even loan
it to them.  You don't loan money to people like that.  I mean if you feel
like you need to give them something to help them out, fine, but you don't go
making billions of dollars of loans in, to people that you can just look at
the situation,

B.56:  They know they're not going to pay it back. 

A.57:  Yeah, and know that they are going to be capable of paying us back, and
that puts a bondage on them.  It makes, you know, pressure on the nation, and
on the people, and on the leadership, and makes their inflation go up, and
it's just a big mess.

@@B.58:  Did you go to Mexico City, uh, anywhere near when the earthquake hit.

A.59:  No, but I knew people, I was there before that, but I knew people, I got a
letter from a friend of mine that I had met there, that who, who the apartment
building was destroyed and they were living in a tent, so it's kind of weird,
you know.  To these people who were on U S dive, the Mexican diving, we went
to the pool together, and watched them dive and all this, so they were you
know, just normal people, weren't squatters or poor people or anything that,
uh, I did, I knew all of my friends there, but none of them that I know of,
got killed in it.  But, uh, they're all Christians though. God really
protected them.  See that broke out a revival in Mexico City.  That C B S news
and A B C never told you about.  There's been a real revival in Mexico City
since that earthquake, because there's a lot of, you know there's a lot of sin
in those nations and a lot, lots of witchcraft, a lot of witchcraft.  A whole
lot of witchcraft.

B.60:  Oh, I can imagine. 

A.61:  So, a lot of it in the name of Christianity. 

B.62:  Oh, really. 

A.63:  Oh, yeah.  There's a lot, you know they call themselves Christians, but you
know they are over there doing witchcraft and stuff, and just a whole lot of
the generational things too, like the Mayans and the Incas. You can't find a
trace of them because God totally destroyed them for how wicked they were.
And yet, they are revered and honored and almost worshiped by so many people,
even now in America, you know, we wouldn't know the truth with all of Indian
groups that were totally removed from the face of the earth, because of how
wicked they were.  I've been down to the pyramids and I have climbed to the
top of the pyramid where they used to take a beating heart out of a young
thirteen year old boy, and they hold it up to the sun God, and that's pretty
of heavy duty.

B.64:  Yeah, is, is there still blood stains on the altar or has it worn away
through the years?

A.65:  I don't think so.  The little box is black on the top of the pyramid in the
sun.  It's black, so yeah, you can't really tell, but it was kind of weird,
you know, you think, wow there is where they did sacrifices to false Gods.

B.66:  Do you get spooked, you feel, or do you get butterflies in your stomach
when you go there? Because,

A.67:  Uh, at that time, I kind of did. It really impressed me, just you know,
feeling but I wasn't a Christian when I went there, but, uh, I think that a
lot of those, those you know, generational things I think, that God sees I'm
praying, you know, that keeps the Christians that are beginning to rise up
there to be able to pray, because that does affect that things, you know, in
your background.





